> What is Node.js?
### Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser. Node.js enables developers to use JavaScript to write command line tools and to utilize server-side scripting to create dynamic web page content before the page is sent to the user's web browser. This path will take you from the basics of Node.js to writing and testing asynchronous Node.js code.

> Where can you use it?
### Node.js is perfect for data-intensive applications as it uses an asynchronous, event-driven model. You can use  I/O intensive web applications like video streaming sites. You can also use it for developing: Real-time web applications, Network applications, General-purpose applications, and Distributed systems.

> How does Node.js work?

> Why is Node.js Single-threaded?
### Node.js is single-threaded for async processing. By doing async processing on a single-thread under typical web loads, more performance and scalability can be achieved instead of the typical thread-based implementation.

> If Node.js is single-threaded, then how does it handle concurrency?
### The Multi-Threaded Request/Response Stateless Model is not followed by the Node JS Platform, and it adheres to the Single-Threaded Event Loop Model. The Node JS Processing paradigm is heavily influenced by the JavaScript Event-based model and the JavaScript callback system. As a result, Node.js can easily manage more concurrent client requests. The event loop is the processing model's beating heart in Node.js.

> What are the advantages of using promises instead of callbacks?

- The control flow of asynchronous logic is more 
- specified and structured.
- The coupling is low.
- We've built-in error handling.
- Improved readability.

> What are the modules in Node.js?
### Modules are like JavaScript libraries
Core Modules : 
- HTTP
- util
- fs
- url
- query string
- stream
- zlib
> What does event-driven programming mean?
### An event-driven programming approach uses events to trigger various functions. An event can be anything, such as typing a key or clicking a mouse button. A call-back function is already registered with the element executes whenever an event is triggered.

> What is an Event Loop in Node.js?
### Event loops handle asynchronous callbacks in Node.js. It is the foundation of the non-blocking input/output in Node.js, making it one of the most important environmental features.

> What are the two types of API functions in Node.js?
### The two types of API functions in Node.js are:

- Asynchronous, non-blocking functions
- Synchronous, blocking functions

> Explain asynchronous and non-blocking APIs in Node.js.

- All Node.js library APIs are asynchronous, which means they are also non-blocking
- A Node.js-based server never waits for an API to return data. Instead, it moves to the next API after calling it, and a notification mechanism from a Node.js event responds to the server for the previous API call

REF: https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/nodejs-tutorial/nodejs-interview-questions